Add EIP-5252: Account-bound Finance (#5252)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5252.md

**`Extension`**: **`Extension`** contract is another contract that can utilize locked funds in **`Finance`** contract. The contract can access with **`Finance`** contract on operator's approval managed in **`Manager`** contract. Example use case of `Extension` can be a membership.

**`Metadata`**: **`Metadata`** contract is the contract where it stores metadata related to account credentials. Credential related data are stored with specific key. Images are usually displayed as SVG, but offchain image is possible. 

---

### Governance

#### From Token Governance To Contribution Based Governance

|               | Token Governance                 | Credential-based Governance                      |
|---------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Enforcement   | More tokens, more power          | More contribution, More power                    |
| Incentives    | More tokens, more incentives     | More contribution, more incentives           |
| Penalty       | No penalty                       | Loss of power                  |
| Assignment | One who holds the token | One who has the most influence |

> <figcaption align = "center"><b>Token Governance vs Credential Based Governance</b></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<figcaption align = "center"><b>Token Governance vs Credential Based Governance</b></figcaption>
```

For example, Terraform Labs kept approximately 70% of their tokens or they printed more if the founder wanted to. They could manipulate voting turnout and decisions. 

New governance that considers contributions to the protocol is needed because:

- **Rulers can be penalized on breaking the protocol**
- **Rulers can be more effectively incentivized on maintaining the protocol**

The power should be given to "those who are most responsible". Instead of locked or owned tokens, voting power is determined with contributions are marked in `Account Bound Token`(ABT). This EIP defines new voting power as **`Influence`**.

#### Calculating Influence

**`Influence`** is a multiplier on staked tokens that brings more voting power of a DAO to its contributors. To get **`Influence`**, a score is calculated on weighted contribution matrix. Then, the score is normalized to give a member's position in whole distribution. Finally, the multiplier is determined on the position in every community members. 

#### Calculating score

> The weights represent relative importance on each factor. The total importance is the total sum of the factors. More factors that can be normalized at the time of submitting proposal can be added by community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The weights represent relative importance on each factor. The total importance is the total sum of the factors. More factors that can be normalized at the time of submitting proposal can be added by community.
```

|    | Description                                         |
|----|------------------------------------------------|
| α  | Contribution value per each **`Finance`** contract from current proposal|

> | β  | Time they maintained **`Finance`** per each contract from current timestamp of a proposal|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| β  | Time they maintained **`Finance`** per each contract from current timestamp of a proposal|

```

```
(score per each ABT) = α * (contribution value) + β * (time that abt was maintained from now)
```

#### Normalization

Normalization is applied for data integrity on user's contribution in a DAO.
Normalized score can be calculated from the state of submitting a proposal

```
(Normalized score per each ABT) = α * (contribution value)/(total contribution value at submitting tx) + β * (time that abt was maintained)/(time passed from genesis to proposal creation) 
```

> and have a value between 0 and 1 (since α + β = 1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

and have a value between 0 and 1 (since α + β = 1).
```

#### Multiplier

Multiplier is determined linearly from base factor (b) and multiplier(m).

The equation for influence is :

```
(influence) = m * (avg(normalized_score)) + b 
```

#### Example

For example, if a user has 3 **`Account-bound tokens`** with normalized score of each 1.0, 0.5, 0.3 and the locked token is 100, and multiplier is 0.5 and base factor is 1.5. Then the total influence is

>  0.5 * {(1.0 + 0.5 + 0.3) / 3} + 1.5 = 1.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`0.5 * {(1.0 + 0.5 + 0.3) / 3} + 1.5 = 1.8`
```

 The total voting power would be

>  ```(voting power) = 1.8 * sqrt(100)  = 18```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`(voting power) = 1.8 * sqrt(100)  = 18`
```
Or convert this into a multiline code block

#### Stakers vs Enforcers

|              | Stakers               | Enforcers                                                                               |
|--------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Role         | stake governance token for voting | Contributed on the system, can make proposal to change rule, more voting power like 1.5 |
| Populations  | many                  | small                                                                                   |
| Contribution | Less effect           | More effect                                                                             |
| Influence       | sqrt(locked token)    | Influence * sqrt(locked token)                                                                      |

> <figcaption align = "center"><b>Fig 1 - Stakers vs Enforcers</b></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<figcaption align = "center"><b>Fig 1 - Stakers vs Enforcers</b></figcaption>
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Stakers**:  Stakers are people who vote to enforcers' proposals and get dividend for staked tokens

**Enforcers**: Enforcers are people who takes risk on managing protocol and contributes to the protocol by making a proposal and change to it.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Contracts

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
eip: 5252
title: Account-bound Finance
description: An EIP-5114 extension that aids in preventing loss of funds
author: Hyungsuk Kang (@hskang9)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/pr-5252-discussion-account-bound-finance/10027
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-29
requires: 721, 1155, 5114
---

## Abstract
This EIP proposes a form of smart contract design pattern and a new type of account abstraction on how one's finance should be managed in web3.0, ensuring transparency of managing investments and protection with self-sovereignty even from its financial operators.

> This EIP extends [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP extends [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md) to further enable transferring fund to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP extends [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md) to further enable the transfer of funds to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.
```
I would prefer this wording as it is slightly clearer.

## Motivation

Finance in the crypto ecosystem is facing a huge trust issue. Smart contracts are often proxies, with the actual logic of the contract hidden away in a separate logic contract. Many projects include a multi-signature "wallet" with unnecessarily-powerful permissions. And it is not possible to independently verify that stablecoins have enough real-world assets to continue maintaining their peg, creating a large loss of funds (such as happened in the official bankruptcy announcement of Celsius and UST de-pegging and anchor protocol failure). One should not trust exchanges or other third parties with one's own investments.

The pattern empowers more self-sovereignty and gives more credentials(obviously with an Account-bound token) than locking financial data in the operating team's contract.

Segregation between investor's fund and operation fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety from arbitrary loss of funds by the operating team's control.

> #### Offchain-identity vs Soul-bound token on credentials 

Reviewer 2: It seems to me this section is more suitable for Rationale

Author: I will add that to Rationale.

Author: I added.

This EIP opposes the offchain-identity solution to take over the whole system, because their backend eventually relies on the trust of the operator, not the cryptographic proof of storing data(e.g. Proof-of-work, Proof-of-stake, etc). Offchain identity as credentials denies the whole premise of crypto's existence. Hence, Soul-bound token is the verifiable credential to stay, and offchain integration is just enough to show images.

## Specification

> The specification consists of two patterns for **Interaction** and **Governance**.

Reviewer 2: Can you add basic specification of what is being required in this EIP?

Author: I added requirements for properties. If there is a need for function with solidity interface, please let me know.

requires: 20, 721, 1155, 5114
---

## Abstract
This EIP proposes a form of smart contract design pattern and a new type of account abstraction on how one's finance should be managed in web3.0, ensuring transparency of managing investments and protection with self-sovereignty even from its financial operators.

This EIP extends [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md) to further enable transferring fund to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets(i.e. private keys).

## Motivation

Finance in the crypto ecosystem is facing a huge trust issue. Smart contracts are often proxies, with the actual logic of the contract hidden away in a separate logic contract. Many projects include a multi-signature "wallet" with unnecessarily-powerful permissions. And it is not possible to independently verify that stablecoins have enough real-world assets to continue maintaining their peg, creating a large loss of funds (such as happened in the official bankruptcy announcement of Celsius and UST de-pegging and anchor protocol failure). One should not trust exchanges or other third parties with one's own investments with the operators' background, status, or cult of personality in web3.0.

> The pattern empowers more self-sovereignty and gives more credentials(obviously with an Account-bound token) than locking financial data in the operating team's contract with a trustless way.

Reviewer: Required: Rephrase this. It is unclear what you are trying to say.

Reviewer: I was stating, as a fact, that what you are saying was (and is still) unclear to me, and so needs rephrasing. I will not, as per EIP-1, merge this draft until I can actually fully understand what is being said here. All I'm looking for here is for you to elaborate - how is an ABT the best way to empower greater self-sovereignty? What do you mean by "give more credentials"? How does one "[lock] financial data"? This is currently unclear to me as written, and hopefully should be easy for you to fix. If not, then you can always remove it and re-add it in a later revision.

As for your other point, I am indeed editing your proposal. I am admittedly being blunt and trite here (I find that it oftentimes means that lengthy discussions over minutiae are avoided, but clearly not this time), but all my feedback is constructive, targeted, and actionable. I would be more than willing to stop editing your proposal if you so wish, but I imagine that both you and I would rather get this EIP merged. In order to expedite that, please make the above change.

#### Offchain-identity vs Soul-bound token on credentials 

> This EIP opposes the offchain-identity solution to take over the whole system, because their backend eventually relies on the trust of the operator, not the cryptographic proof of storing data(e.g. Proof-of-work, Proof-of-stake, etc). Offchain identity as credentials denies the whole premise of crypto's existence. Hence, Soul-bound token is the verifiable credential to stay, and offchain integration is just enough to show images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP opposes the off-chain identity solution to take over the whole system because their backends eventually rely on the trust of the operator, not cryptographic proof (e.g. Proof-of-work, Proof-of-stake, etc). Off-chain identity as credentials denies the whole premise of crypto's existence. Soulbound tokens are a better, verifiable, credential, and data stored off-chain is only to store token metadata.
```
Required: make this clearer
Recommended: use this rephrasing

Reviewer: It's just my personal opinion. Feel free to disregard it.

I will say, it actually does happen to be in Grammarly's dictionary - but I agree that that's hardly an authoritative source.

2. The contract SHALL set a decimal to calculated normalized scores.
3. The contract SHALL set a function where governance can decide factor parameters.

A governor contract is defined with these properties:
1. The contract MUST satisfy Governor contract from OpenZeppelin.
2. The contract SHALL refer influencer contract for multiplier
3. The contract MUST limit transfer of account bound token once claimed for double vote prevention. 

#### From Token Governance To Contribution Based Governance

|               | Token Governance                 | Credential-based Governance                      |
|---------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Enforcement   | More tokens, more power          | More contribution, More power                    |
| Incentives    | More tokens, more incentives     | More contribution, more incentives           |
| Penalty       | No penalty                       | Loss of power                  |
| Assignment | One who holds the token | One who has the most influence |

<figcaption align = "center"><b>Token Governance vs Credential Based Governance</b></figcaption>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Token governance is not sustainable in that it gives **more** power to "those who most want to rule". Any individual who gets more than 51% of token supply can change the rules to their favor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token governance is not sustainable in that it gives **more** power to "those who most want to rule". Any individual who gets more than 51% of the token supply can forcefully take control.
```

> For example, Terraform Labs kept approximately 70% of their tokens or they printed more if the founder wanted to. They could manipulate voting turnout and decisions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Interesting anecdote, but this doesn't belong in the specification.

New governance that considers contributions to the protocol is needed because:

- **Rulers can be penalized on breaking the protocol**
- **Rulers can be more effectively incentivized on maintaining the protocol**

> The power should be given to "those who are most responsible". Instead of locked or owned tokens, voting power is determined with contributions are marked in `Account Bound Token`(ABT). This EIP defines new voting power as **`Influence`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The power should be given to "those who are most responsible". Instead of locked or owned tokens, voting power is determined with contributions marked in Account Bound Tokens (ABT). This EIP defines this form of voting power as **`Influence`**.
```
Recommended: Rephrasing
Recommended: Formatting

#### Calculating Influence

**`Influence`** is a multiplier on staked tokens that brings more voting power of a DAO to its contributors. To get **`Influence`**, a score is calculated on weighted contribution matrix. Then, the score is normalized to give a member's position in whole distribution. Finally, the multiplier is determined on the position in every community members. 

#### Calculating score

The weights represent relative importance on each factor. The total importance is the total sum of the factors. More factors that can be normalized at the time of submitting proposal can be added by community.

|    | Description                                         |
|----|------------------------------------------------|
| α  | Contribution value per each **`Finance`** contract from current proposal|
| β  | Time they maintained **`Finance`** per each contract from current timestamp of a proposal|

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```math
```

(score per each ABT) = α * (contribution value) + β * (time that abt was maintained from now)
```

#### Normalization

Normalization is applied for data integrity on user's contribution in a DAO.
Normalized score can be calculated from the state of submitting a proposal

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```math
```

(Normalized score per each ABT) = α * (contribution value)/(total contribution value at submitting tx) + β * (time that abt was maintained)/(time passed from genesis to proposal creation) 
```

and have a value between 0 and 1 (since α + β = 1).

#### Multiplier

Multiplier is determined linearly from base factor (b) and multiplier(m).

The equation for influence is :

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```math
```
Recommended: Formatting

(influence) = m * (sum(normalized_score))
```

#### Example

For example, if a user has 3 **`Account-bound tokens`** with normalized score of each 1.0, 0.5, 0.3 and the locked token is 100, and multiplier is 0.5 and base factor is 1.5. Then the total influence is

> 
> `0.5 * {(1.0 + 0.5 + 0.3) / 3} + 1.5 = 1.8`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```math
0.5 * {(1.0 + 0.5 + 0.3) / 3} + 1.5 = 1.8
```
```
Recommended: Formatting

 The total voting power would be

> `(voting power) = 1.8 * sqrt(100)  = 18`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```math
(voting power) = 1.8 * sqrt(100)  = 18
```
```
Recommended: formatting

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: formatting

#### Stakers vs Enforcers

|              | Stakers               | Enforcers                                                                               |
|--------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Role         | stake governance token for voting | Contributed on the system, can make proposal to change rule, more voting power like 1.5 |
| Populations  | many                  | small                                                                                   |
| Contribution | Less effect           | More effect                                                                             |
| Influence       | sqrt(locked token)    | Influence * sqrt(locked token)                                                                      |

<figcaption align = "center"><b>Fig 1 - Stakers vs Enforcers</b></figcaption>

**Stakers**:  Stakers are people who vote to enforcers' proposals and get dividend for staked tokens

**Enforcers**: Enforcers are people who takes risk on managing protocol and contributes to the protocol by making a proposal and change to it.

#### Contracts

> **`Influencer`**: **`Influencer`** contract stores influence configurations and measures the contribution of a user from his activities done in registered **`Account Bound Token(ABT)`** contract. The contract puts lock on **`Account Bound Token(ABT)`** until proposal is finalized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Influencer`**: An **`Influencer`** contract stores influence configurations and measures the contribution of a user from his activities done in a registered Account Bound Token contract. The contract puts a lock on that Account Bound Token until the proposal is finalized.
```
Required: grammar
Recommended: formatting

> **`Governor`**: **`Governor`** contract is compatible with current governor contract in Openzeppelin. For its special use case, it configures factor where influencer manages and has access on changing parameter of **`Manager`** configs. Only `Enforcer` can propose new parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Governor`**: **`Governor`** contract is compatible with the current governor contract in OpenZeppelin. For its special use case, it configures factors where the influencer manages and has access to changing parameters of **`Manager`** configs. Only the `Enforcer` can propose new parameters.
```
Required: fix grammar

## Rationale

> #### No more proxy of multisigs
> Smart contracts without one's full control is basically a proxy with multisig with smart contract operators. One of members can easily run away with the operating funds as 0xSifu from Magic Internet Money(MIM).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Required: Remove this. This is motivation, not rationale.

#### Gas saving for end user

> Operating gas cost with one defi contract vs multiple contract was actually gas saving if clone factory pattern was applied. One defi contract storing m users' state globally means each user is actually paying for storage cost on other previous users after interacting with the contract. This makes MakerDAO's contract operating cost to be sometimes over 0.1 ETH, and sometimes limit user's minimum deposit for CDP to save gas cost. To solve inefficient n-times charging gas cost interaction for future users, one contract per user is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operating gas cost with one contract vs multiple contracts is actually gas saving if the clone factory pattern was applied. One contract storing users' state globally means each user is actually paying for storage cost on other previous users after interacting with the contract. This, for example, means that MakerDAO's contract operating cost is sometimes over 0.1 ETH, and often limits users' minimum deposit for CDP to save gas costs. To solve inefficient n-times charging gas cost interaction for future users, one contract per user is needed.
```
Required: fix grammar

#### Separation between investor's and operation fund

> Separation between investor's fund and operation fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety from arbitrary loss of funds by the operating team's control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The separation between an investor's fund and operation fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety from arbitrary loss of funds by the operating team's control.
```
Required: fix grammar

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: formatting

## Backwards Compatibility
This EIP has no known backward compatibility issues.

## Reference Implementation

> [Reference implementation](../assets/eip-5252) is a simple deposit account contract as `Finance` contract and its contribution value α is measured with deposit amount with ETH.

Reviewer: Required: Link to every file individually

Author: ok

## Security Considerations

> - **`Factory`** contract must ensure that each **`Finance`** contract is registered in the factory and check **`Finance`** contract is sending transaction related to its bounded owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Factory`** contracts must ensure that each **`Finance`** contract is registered in the factory and check that **`Finance`** contracts are sending transactions related to their bounded owner.
```
Required: fix grammar

> - Reentrancy attack guard should be applied or change state before delegatecall in each user function in **`Manager`** contract or **`Finance`** contract. Otherwise, **`Finance`** can be generated as double and ruin whole indices. 

Reviewer: Required: Make this clearer. I think I know what you're saying but I don't want to botch it.

> - Once a user locks influence on a proposal's vote, **`Account Bound Token`** cannot be transferred to other wallet. Otherwise, double influence can happen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once a user locks influence on a proposal's vote, an **`Account Bound Token`** cannot be transferred to another wallet. Otherwise, double influence can happen. 
```
Required: Grammar

---
eip: 5252
title: Account-bound Finance

> description: A smart contract design pattern in decentralized finance to remove insolvency and arbitrary loss of funds using blockchain technology only. Extension of EIP-5114

Reviewer: This is too long. Please shorten it:
```suggestion
description: An EIP-5114 extension that aids in preventing loss of funds
```

> eip: 5252
> title: Account-bound Finance
> description: A smart contract design pattern in decentralized finance to remove insolvency and arbitrary loss of funds using blockchain technology only. Extension of EIP-5114
> author: Hyungsuk Kang (@hskang9)
> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/
> type: Standards Track
> category: ERC
> status: Draft
> requires: 721, 1155, 5114
> created: 2022-06-29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 5252
title: Account-bound Finance
description: An EIP-5114 extension to remove insolvency and arbitrary loss of funds 
author: Hyungsuk Kang (@hskang9)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-29
requires: 721, 1155, 5114
```

> created: 2022-06-29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-29
requires: 721, 1155, 5114
```
Re-order preamble

---

## Abstract
This EIP proposes a form of smart contract design pattern and a new type of account abstraction on how one's finance should be managed in web3.0, ensuring transparency of managing investments and protection with self-sovereignty even from its financial operators.

> This EIP also extends account-bound token from [EIP-5114](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5114), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP also extends [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.
```
Should be an internal link.

> This EIP also extends account-bound token from [EIP-5114](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5114), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP also extends account-bound tokens from [EIP-5114](./eip-5114.md), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other accounts for mobility between managing multiple wallets.
```

## Motivation

> Finance in the crypto ecosystem is facing a huge trust issue. Smart contracts can now be a proxy of multisig for operating teams, and Insolvencies exist in that there is no trace of funds written in the blockchain. That can create an arbitrary loss of funds, as happened in the official bankruptcy announcement of Celsius and UST depegging and anchor protocol failure. Smart contract should be used for peer-to-peer only, with immutable rules etched so that only one who has the private key has full access to managing his investment as bitcoin promises. 

Reviewer: There are still a few errors. I will try my best to fix this paragraph:
```suggestion
Finance in the crypto ecosystem is facing a huge trust issue. Smart contracts are often proxies, with the actual logic of the contract hidden away in a separate logic contract. Many projects include a multi-signature "wallet" with unnecessarily-powerful permissions. And it is not possible to independently verify that stablecoins have enough real-world assets to continue maintaining their peg, creating a large loss of funds (such as happened in the official bankruptcy announcement of Celsius and UST de-pegging and anchor protocol failure). One should not trust exchanges or other third parties with one's own investments.
```

The pattern empowers more self-sovereignty and gives more credentials(obviously with an Account-bound token) than locking financial data in the operating team's contract.

Segregation between investor's fund and operation fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety from arbitrary loss of funds by the operating team's control.

## Specification

The pattern consists of 5 components, manager, factory, finance, account-bound token, and extension.

### Diagram

> TBD

Reviewer: Placeholders should be removed.

**`Manager`**: **`Manager`** contract acts as an entry point to interact with the investor. The contract also stores parameters for **`Finance`** contract.

> **`Factory`**: **`Factory`** contract manages contract bytecode to create for managing investor's fund and [clones](https://soliditydeveloper.com/clonefactory/) **`Finance`** contract on **`Manager`** contract's approval. It also mints account-bound tokens to interact with the `Finance` contract.

Reviewer: No external links

> **`Factory`**: **`Factory`** contract manages contract bytecode to create for managing investor's fund and [clones](https://soliditydeveloper.com/clonefactory/) **`Finance`** contract on **`Manager`** contract's approval. It also mints account-bound tokens to interact with the `Finance` contract.

Reviewer: No external links

> **`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing an investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with an account that has an Account-bound token. When an investor deposits a fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract accont after separating fees for operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing an investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with an account that has an Account-bound token. When an investor deposits a fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract account after separating fees for operation. 
```

> **`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing an investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with an account that has an Account-bound token. When an investor deposits a fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract accont after separating fees for operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing an investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with an account that has an Account-bound token. When an investor deposits a fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract account after separating fees for operation. 
```

**`Account-bound token`**: **`Account-bound token`** contract in this EIP can bring the **`Finance`** contract's data and add metadata. For example, if there is a money market lending **`Finance`** contract, its **`Account-bound token`** can show how much balance is in agreement using SVG.

**`Extension`**: **`Extension`** contract is another contract that can utilize locked funds in **`Finance`** contract. The contract can access with **`Finance`** contract on operator's approval managed in **`Manager`** contract.

> ## Reference Implementation

Reviewer: This should come after the Backwards Compatibility section

> ## Reference Implementation

Reviewer: This must come after the backward compatibility section.

Author: If I do this, then ci error happens. So I am lost here.

> Reference implementation is a CDP-lending stablecoin project [here](https://github.com/digitalnativeinc/standard-evm/tree/master/contracts/vaults/meter).

Reviewer: No external links

Author: Yes external links. check other eips in this section.

Reviewer 3: While some older EIPs have links in them, our current policy is no external links.

> Reference implementation is a CDP-lending stablecoin project [here](https://github.com/digitalnativeinc/standard-evm/tree/master/contracts/vaults/meter).

Reviewer: Must be put in the assets directory.

Author: ok

## Backwards Compatibility

> This EIP does not change the consensus layer. It impose changes on the transfer option for account-bound tokens, but a developer can adjust this to enable it or not. So there are no backward compatibility issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP has no known backward compatibility issues.
```

**`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing an investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with an account that has an Account-bound token. When an investor deposits a fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract account after separating fees for operation. 

**`Account-bound token`**: **`Account-bound token`** contract in this EIP can bring the **`Finance`** contract's data and add metadata. For example, if there is a money market lending **`Finance`** contract, its **`Account-bound token`** can show how much balance is in agreement using SVG.

**`Extension`**: **`Extension`** contract is another contract that can utilize locked funds in **`Finance`** contract. The contract can access with **`Finance`** contract on operator's approval managed in **`Manager`** contract.

## Backwards Compatibility
This EIP has no known backward compatibility issues.

## Reference Implementation

> [Reference implementation](https://github.com/digitalnativeinc/standard-evm/tree/master/contracts/vaults/meter) is a CDP stablecoin lending project.

Reviewer 3: No external links.  You need to either inline the code or add it to `../assets/eip-5252/` or remove this section entirely (it is optional).  Note: Code included should be as small/slim as possible, please do not include an entire build system/project, just enough code to exemplify how one might implement this standard.  Pseudocode or incomplete code is acceptable

Author: ok I am making example contracts.

---
eip: 5252
title: Account-bound Finance
description: An EIP-5114 extension to remove insolvency and arbitrary loss of funds
author: Hyungsuk Kang (@hskang9)

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/

Reviewer: Needs to be a thread on ethereum magicians
